OSDOCS-9614: Created documentation to create a ROSA with HCP cluster that uses external auth for OIDC (#73839)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-cluster-ext-auth-provider-cli.adoc

|This string is the name or the ID of your cluster

|`--name`
|This string is the name you set for your external authentication provider.

|`--issuer-audiences` 
|This common-separated list of strings is your client ID. In Microsoft Entra ID, this is called the audience ID.

|`--issuer-url`
|This string is the URL of the token issuer

|`--claim-mapping-username-claim` 
|This string is the name of the claim that should be used to construct user names for the cluster identity.

|`--claim-mapping-groups-claim`
| This string describes rules on how to transform information from an ID token into a cluster identity.

|===

.Procedure

. Use one of the following commands to create your external authentication provider:

* To use the interactive command interface, run the following commands:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create external-auth-provider -c <cluster_name>
----
+
This command starts an interactive CLI process:
+
--
[source,terminal]
----
I: Enabling interactive mode
? Name: <.>
? Issuer audiences: <.>
? The serving url of the token issuer: <.>
? CA file path (optional): <.>
? Claim mapping username: <.>
? Claim mapping groups: <.>
? Claim validation rule (optional): <.>

> ? Console client id (optional): <.>

Reviewer: Console is usually a confidential OAuthClient and will require a client secret to be added. --client-secret.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa_hcp/rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-cluster-ext-auth.adoc
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-cluster-external-auth-provider-cli_{context}"]

> = Creating an external authentication provider

Author: @lucasponce @anjaltelang @zanetworker we had discussed documenting with Entra ID, which was the purpose of this ticket. Should I pivot to the KeyCloak and purge all the Entra ID items? This would likely push this PR back a bit, and I would need someone to explain how to use KeyCloak.

:source-highlighter: pygments
:pygments-style: emacs
:icons: font
 
After you have created a {hcp-title} cluster with the enabled option for external authentication providers, you must create a provider using the ROSA CLI.

[NOTE]
====
Similar to the `rosa create|delete|list idp[s]` command in the ROSA CLI, you cannot edit an existing identity provider that you created using `rosa create external-auth-provider`. Instead, you must delete the external authentication provider and create a new one. See the additional resources for more information about the `idp` subcommand of the ROSA CLI.

> ====

Reviewer 2: I think this sentence is not required

> See the additional resources for more information about the `idp` subcommand of the ROSA CLI.

> This configuration uses Microsoft Entra ID to authenticate your credentials. The Entra ID values are:

Reviewer 3: I see the confusion now.

This paragraph is written in a generic / agnostic way, which is good

![image](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/assets/1662329/c82cc3f1-41e7-456b-a0fe-92116e62f1db)

Then I would remove the "Micrososft Entra ID" from here.

I would mention in the "Example output" the provider when it adds specific info (for example, in the "Verification" -> "Example output") but it's minor.

[cols="1,1", options="header"]
|===

|CLI Flag
|Expected value

|`--cluster` 
|This string is the name or the ID of your cluster

|`--name`
|This string is the name you set for your external authentication provider.

|`--console-client-secret`
|This string is the client secret that is used to associate your account with the application. If you do not include the client secret, this command uses a public OIDC OAuthClient.

|`--issuer-audiences` 

> |This common-separated list of strings is your client ID. In Microsoft Entra ID, this is called the audience ID.

Reviewer 3: This is mapped with this attribute:
https://github.com/openshift/api/blob/master/config/v1/types_authentication.go#L240

|`--issuer-url`
|This string is the URL of the token issuer

|`--claim-mapping-username-claim` 
|This string is the name of the claim that should be used to construct user names for the cluster identity.

|`--claim-mapping-groups-claim`
| This string describes rules on how to transform information from an ID token into a cluster identity.

|===

.Procedure

. Use one of the following commands to create your external authentication provider:

* To use the interactive command interface, run the following commands:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create external-auth-provider -c <cluster_name>
----
+
This command starts an interactive CLI process:
+
--
[source,terminal]
----
I: Enabling interactive mode
? Name: <.>
? Issuer audiences: <.>
? The serving url of the token issuer: <.>
? CA file path (optional): <.>
? Claim mapping username: <.>
? Claim mapping groups: <.>
? Claim validation rule (optional): <.>
? Console client id (optional): <.>

> ----

Reviewer 2: Miss "? Console client secret (optional): [? for help]"

Author: When I ran `rosa create external-auth-provider -c $CLUSTER_NAME` I did not have that line.

```
I: Enabling interactive mode
? Name: <snip>
X Sorry, your reply was invalid: Value is required
? Issuer audiences:  <snip>
X Sorry, your reply was invalid: Value is required
? The serving url of the token issuer: <snip>
? CA file path (optional):
X Sorry, your reply was invalid: Value is required
? Claim mapping username: <snip>
X Sorry, your reply was invalid: Value is required
? Claim mapping groups: groups
? Claim validation rule (optional):
? Console client id (optional):
E: failed to create an external authentication provider for cluster '<snip>': Cluster '<snip>' has already defined an external authentication
```

<.> The name of your external authentication provider. This name should be a lower-case with numbers and dashes.
<.> The issuer audiences field requires you to provide the audience IDs that this authentication provider issues tokens for.
<.> This field uses the issuer's URL that serves the token.
<.> Optional: This field takes the path of a certificate file to use when making requests.
<.> The name of the claim that is used to construct the user names for cluster identity, such as using `email`.
<.> This field specifies how to transform the ID token into a cluster identity, such as using `groups`.

> <.> Optional: These are rules that help validate token claims which authenticate your users. This field should be formatted as `<claim:<required_value>`.

Reviewer 2: It should be "<claim>:<required_value>"

<.> Optional: This field is the application or client ID that your app registration uses for the console.
--

* You can include the required IDs to create your external authentication provider with the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> rosa create external-auth-provider -c <cluster_id> --name <provider_name> --issuer-audiences <audience_id> --issuer-url <issuing id> --claim-mapping-username-claim email --claim-mapping-groups-claim groups

Reviewer 3: I would add the example that uses the console as well.

Something like this example:

```
rosa create external-auth-provider \
--cluster=lponce-local-01 \
--name=m-entra-id \
--issuer-url=https://login.microsoftonline.com/fa5d3dd8-b8ec-4407-a55c-ced639f1c8c5/v2.0 \
--issuer-audiences=a9464024-b142-4bdf-86c0-a153109cdb14,8a769b34-13c9-4f5b-9933-ec439700ec67 \
--claim-mapping-username-claim=email \
--claim-mapping-groups-claim=groups \
--console-client-id=8a769b34-13c9-4f5b-9933-ec439700ec67 \
--console-client-secret=<SECRET>
```

|===

.Procedure

* To use the interactive command interface, run the following commands:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create external-auth-provider -c <cluster_name>
----
+
.Example output
--
[source,terminal]
----
I: Enabling interactive mode
? Name: <.>
? Issuer audiences: <.>
? The serving url of the token issuer: <.>
? CA file path (optional): <.>
? Claim mapping username: <.>
? Claim mapping groups: <.>
? Claim validation rule (optional): <.>
? Console client id (optional): <.>
----
<.> The name of your external authentication provider. This name should be a lower-case with numbers and dashes.
<.> The audience IDs that this authentication provider issues tokens for.
<.> The issuer's URL that serves the token.
<.> Optional: The certificate file to use when making requests.
<.> The name of the claim that is used to construct the user names for cluster identity, such as using `email`.
<.> The method with which to transform the ID token into a cluster identity, such as using `groups`.
<.> Optional: The rules that help validate token claims which authenticate your users. This field should be formatted as `:<required_value>`.

> <.> Optional: The application or client ID that your app registration uses for the console.

Reviewer 4: These `.`s need to be numbers so the Portal can handle them

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa_hcp/rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-cluster-ext-auth.adoc
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-cluster-external-auth-provider-cli_{context}"]
= Creating an external authentication provider
:source-highlighter: pygments
:pygments-style: emacs
:icons: font
 

> After you have created a {hcp-title} cluster with the enabled option for external authentication providers, you must create a provider using the ROSA CLI.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
After you have created a {hcp-title} cluster with external authentication providers, you must create a provider using the ROSA CLI.
```
Is "the enabled option" necessary here? I feel like its just extra and can be removed. Disregard this comment if it is.

[NOTE]
====
Similar to the `rosa create|delete|list idp[s]` command in the ROSA CLI, you cannot edit an existing identity provider that you created using `rosa create external-auth-provider`. Instead, you must delete the external authentication provider and create a new one.
====

The following table shows the possible CLI flags you can use when creating your external authentication provider:

[cols="1,1", options="header"]
|===

|CLI Flag
|Description

|`--cluster` 
|The name or the ID of your cluster

|`--name`
|A name that is used to refer to the external authentication provider.

|`--console-client-secret`
|This string is the client secret that is used to associate your account with the application. If you do not include the client secret, this command uses a public OIDC OAuthClient.

|`--issuer-audiences` 
|This is a comma-separated list of token audiences.

|`--issuer-url`
|The URL of the token issuer.

|`--claim-mapping-username-claim` 
|The name of the claim that should be used to construct user names for the cluster identity.

|`--claim-mapping-groups-claim`
|The name of the claim that should be used to construct group names for the cluster identity.

|===

.Procedure

> . Use one of the following commands to create your external authentication provider:

Reviewer 4: This is a single step procedure, though like the other one you could probably just move this info into the intro and leave the two options as steps. If you want to keep it here, change the list item type:

```suggestion
* Use one of the following commands to create your external authentication provider:
```

+
[NOTE]
====
The following procedure uses Microsoft Entra ID to demonstrate how to configure an external authentication provider. This process can be used on any compliant OIDC provider. For more information, see the link:https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#IDToken[ID token section] of the OIDC errata.
====

* To use the interactive command interface, run the following commands:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create external-auth-provider -c <cluster_name>
----
+
This command starts an interactive CLI process:
+
--
[source,terminal]
----
I: Enabling interactive mode
? Name: <.>
? Issuer audiences: <.>
? The serving url of the token issuer: <.>
? CA file path (optional): <.>
? Claim mapping username: <.>
? Claim mapping groups: <.>
? Claim validation rule (optional): <.>
? Console client id (optional): <.>
----
<.> The name of your external authentication provider. This name should be a lower-case with numbers and dashes.

> <.> The issuer audiences field requires you to provide the audience IDs that this authentication provider issues tokens for.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<.> The audience IDs that this authentication provider issues tokens for.
```

> <.> This field uses the issuer's URL that serves the token.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<.> The issuer's URL that serves the token.
```

> <.> Optional: This field takes the path of a certificate file to use when making requests.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<.> Optional: The path of a certificate file to use when making requests.
```

<.> The name of the claim that is used to construct the user names for cluster identity, such as using `email`.

> <.> This field specifies how to transform the ID token into a cluster identity, such as using `groups`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<.> The method with which to transform the ID token into a cluster identity, such as using `groups`.
```

> <.> Optional: These are rules that help validate token claims which authenticate your users. This field should be formatted as `:<required_value>`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<.> Optional: The rules that help validate token claims which authenticate your users. This field should be formatted as `:<required_value>`.
```

> <.> Optional: This field is the application or client ID that your app registration uses for the console.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<.> Optional: The application or client ID that your app registration uses for the console.
```

--

* You can include the required IDs to create your external authentication provider with the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
rosa create external-auth-provider --cluster=<cluster_id> \
    --name=<provider_name> --issuer-url=<issuing_url> \
    --issuer-audiences=<audience_id> \ 
    --claim-mapping-username-claim=email \ 
    --claim-mapping-groups-claim=groups \
    --console-client-id=<client_id_for_app_registration> \
    --console-client-secret=<client_secret>
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
I: Successfully created an external authentication provider for cluster '<cluster_id>'
----

.Verification 

> . View the external authentication configuration on your cluster by running the following commands:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* View the external authentication configuration on your cluster by running the following commands:
```
